in this lesson we'll be making a
drawstring purse that can also double as
a Renaissance style hat a word of
caution however your husband might
refuse to be seen with you while you're
wearing it for this project you'll need
1 to 2 types of material cut into large
circles might have a radius of about 12
inches if one side is nicer than the
other lay the two knife sides down
facing each other and then pin the two
circles together so the two circle
pieces together leaving about a three
inch gap this will let you turn it
right-side out
once you have it turned right side out
take the two rough edges on the sides of
the cap and turn them in word pin them
together and then you can sew it shut
these stitches will show on the outside
so find a thread that'll go nicely with
your fabric with our capstone shut we're
now ready to stitch a pocket into our
fabric this can be accomplished by
stitching a circle about one inch inside
the perimeter once that is complete
stitch another one about 3/4 of an inch
inside the first this will create the
desired pocket with that in place our
next step is to set two eyelets on
opposite ends of the circle using seam
rippers or a pair of scissors cut
through just one layer of the fabric the
hole needs to be big enough to slip in
the long part of the eyelid but not so
big that it falls out easily achieving
this can be a little tricky but the
shorter portion of the eyelet over the
long one and we're ready to set it we
talked about setting eyelets a little in
lesson three but we'll go over it again
here put the bottom portion of your
eyelet setting kit on a hard surface and
then place the eyelet on top of it
position the top portion onto the eyelet
and then hit it with a rubber mallet
the to half should now be fused together
I like to use eyelets in this project
give them nice finish but to make it a
lot easier on yourself you could just
cut the holes and leave it at that
with either eyelets or holes now in
place we're ready to run our drawstring
I'm just going to use some Brown ribbon
that I found at a craft store to get it
through our pocket I'm just going to use
a plastic drinking straw
once I work the straw through to the
other side I'll simply tape the ribbon
to the straw and pull it back through
after you cut your ribbon I would
suggest tying the two ends together so
they don't get pulled back into the
fabric then just repeat the same process
on the other side tighten up your / /
hat a little bit and then tie a bow at
each end
toss in a few of your Renaissance Fair
essentials and you're all ready to go I
hope you have a lot of fun trying this
project and if you wear it as a hat
please please please send me the
pictures thanks for watching